Help!
No doubt you have sometimes in your life heard somebody call out, help!
Perhaps you yourself have called out, help to Jehovah.
In Psalm 30 verse 10, David once sang,
Oh, Jehovah, become my helper.
Jehovah becomes our helper not only when we are in danger.
He provides help in many positive ways in everyday life.
What helped us Jehovah provide for us?
First, find with me a revelation chapter 14 verse 6.
For one thing, Jehovah provides his holy angels to support the worldwide preaching work.
In Revelation 146, John recorded.
And I saw another angel flying in mid-Heaven and he had ever lasting good news to declare
to those who dwell on the earth to every nation and tribe and tongue and people.
It is not just one angel that is active in support of the preaching work.
Many angels are involved in it.
If it were not for the help and direction of the angels, we would sometimes overlook
somebody with a good heart when we go out and preach.
Secondly, Jehovah has also given us his holy spirit, the fruitage of which makes us more
effective teachers and helps us to draw sheep like ones to the truth.
Thirdly, Jehovah has given us as help the privilege of prayer.
He gets personally involved in our activities,
Bible teachers and students alike need Jehovah's help.
Psalm 127 verse 1 says,
unless Jehovah builds the house, it is in vain that its builders work hard on it.
Fourth, Jehovah gives us also the needed wisdom.
It is wisdom to pray for the wisdom from above mentioned at James 3 verse 17.
Lastly, Jehovah also gives us the needed strength which helps us a lot when we are tired
or discouraged or have a lot of work.
First, Peter 4.11 refers to the strength that God supplies.
Yes, we can pray for Jehovah's help for wisdom and for the necessary strength.
In the following dramatization, notice the power of praying in behalf of a Bible student.
So, how do we know that Jesus did not become king when he was on earth
or immediately after he was resurrected?
Oh, because he didn't.
Well, what did Jesus teach his disciples to pray?
Oh, yeah, well, I know the obvious.
Let your kingdom come, implied future tense.
But how come you know for sure what's going on in heaven?
Maybe it would help if we reviewed the sighted scriptures here.
Before you leave, a suggestion.
Maybe if you were to study ahead of time, I would...
How about no?
I'm really swamped.
I know you're busy.
We all are.
You have no clue, do you?
I gotta go.
I didn't know what to do next.
I thought she was making our study a priority, but maybe she wasn't.
Do all die time.
Then, I remembered first Corinthians 3, verse 6, that God keeps making it grow.
So I asked him to help Jade, then left it with him.
Look, I need to apologize.
Forget it.
You were stressed.
Yeah, but there's more.
Inside, I knew you were right.
It's just the last thing I wanted to stop.
Really?
How about I show you how I prepare?
Okay.
How can prayer help us in making disciples?
Please locate with me Philippians 1, verses 9 and 10.
And this is what I continue praying that your love may abound still more and more,
with accurate knowledge and full discernment, that you may make sure of the more important things
so that you may be flawless and not stumbling others up to the day of Christ.
Just as Paul prayed that the love of the Philippians may abound with accurate knowledge and
full discernment, we can pray for the same in behalf of our Bible students.
Pray also for the Holy Spirit to guide your thoughts and actions and the ones of your students.
Pray from the heart, confident that your hope will hear you.
Psalm 65 verse 2 says, O hero of prayer, to you people of all sorts will come.
Teach your Bible students how to pray, not only encourage them to do so, urge them to do so.
Meaning to pray will help your students to form a close friendship with Jehovah.
Pray with your Bible students and for them, using or spelling out their name.
Be confident that Jehovah will answer your prayers and theirs.
Please turn to Acts 10 verse 9.
Peter was a fine example of one who prayed.
Acts 10 verse 9 says,
The next day as they were continuing on their journey and were approaching the city,
Peter went up to the house top about the six hour to pray.
In the same chapter, Cornelius was also a fine example.
In Acts chapter 10, 30 and 31, he reported to Peter.
Four days ago, counting from this hour, I was praying in my house at the ninth hour,
just in a man in bright clothing stood in front of me and said,
Cornelius, your prayer has been favorably heard and your gifts of mercy have been remembered before God.
Jehovah answered Peter's prayer and Cornelius prayer.
Jehovah has given us what we need to increase our joy in making disciples.
When a report came to John that Jesus was making many disciples,
John did not become jealous.
A John chapter 3, he replied,
This joy of mine has been made full.
That one must go on increasing, but I must go on decreasing.
When we do not make disciples personally, we can still rejoice with those who do make them.
The angels rejoice, although they do not personally make disciples.
At Luke 157, Jesus said,
There will be more joy in heaven,
or the one sinner who repents than over 99 righteous ones who have no need of repentance.
We also rejoice because we have the Bible and powerful research tools in print and electronically,
as well as in audio format.
We rejoice because we have our brotherhood to support and assist us.
We can ask them for suggestions and we can invite them to accompany us in the ministry,
even if it is only by computer, tie-in or telephone witnessing.
If we cannot meet together physically for a congregation meeting,
we can arrange for tie-ins with others, and here and see them.
It warms our heart.
Don't forget the provisions from Jehovah, which we mentioned at the beginning of this talk.
First, we have the privilege of prayer.
Second, the help of God's angels.
Third, the support of the Holy Spirit.
Fourth, the wisdom from above.
And fifth, the spiritual and emotional strength that God supplies.
Jehovah has given us all of this because he cares about us and about those we teach.
We will have great joy in the ministry if we take full advantage of Jehovah's help.
Lastly, we want to mention something very precious that brings us deep inner joy.
Some 25, 14.
Close friendship with Jehovah belongs to those who fear him and pray to him.
May your joyous friendship with Jehovah and the joyous friendship with disciples of Jehovah last for an eternity.